runtime/loops/loop-2025-12-14-phase-11-2-2-inline-task-mutation.md, before:

---
uuid: 44DAF6DD-253D-4AA0-A9C8-B76BAA58F9CD
title: Phase 11.2.2 – Implement Inline Task Mutation in Filtered View
phase: 11.2.2
workstream: Ora
program: Phase 11 – Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering
status: in_progress
type: execution
tags: [ui, mutation, filter, tasks]
score: 0
---

## ✅ Objectives

Implement add, edit, and delete actions for tasks inline within the filtered roadmap/task view UI. Ensure all mutations are routed through the API, updating both roadmap.md and the relevant loop file, with changes versioned and logged.

## 🔢 Tasks

- Scaffold UI controls for inline add/edit/delete within the filtered view
- Wire up API routes for all mutations
- Validate field updates in both artefact and roadmap file
- Log all mutations to execution log
- Add test cases for each mutation path

## 🧾 Execution Log

- 2025-12-14: Artefact scaffolded; roadmap updated.
- 2025-12-14: Status updated to in_progress; first implementation task created (Task 11.2.2.1 - Scaffold UI controls).
- 2025-12-14: Canonical taxonomy and roadmap structure committed and tagged at taxonomy-2025-12-14-canonical-structure. Model: workstream ("Ora") → program (phase) → project (grouping) → artefact (task/note/thought). All artefacts versioned and discoverable only within roadmap tree. UI filtering aligned.

## 🧠 Memory Trace

- Filtering and contextual chat already implemented (Phase 11.2.1)
- No orphan artefacts; all logic sequenced in vertical slice

Commit message:

🏷️ feat: Phase 12 Admin, Role, Workstream UI Complete - Admin UI for phase/project/artefact CRUD, role management, audit logs, and workstream creation wizard implemented and fully tested. All features production-ready, workstream-scoped, and live in the admin panel. Roadmap.md, artefacts, and change log fully updated with completion summaries and audit results.

runtime/loops/loop-2025-12-14-phase-11-2-2-inline-task-mutation.md, after:

---
uuid: 44DAF6DD-253D-4AA0-A9C8-B76BAA58F9CD
title: Phase 11.2.2 – Implement Inline Task Mutation in Filtered View
phase: 11.2.2
workstream: Ora
program: Phase 11 – Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering
status: in_progress
type: execution
tags:
  - ui
  - mutation
  - filter
  - tasks
score: 0
---

## ✅ Objectives

Implement add, edit, and delete actions for tasks inline within the filtered roadmap/task view UI. Ensure all mutations are routed through the API, updating both roadmap.md and the relevant loop file, with changes versioned and logged.

## 🔢 Tasks

- Scaffold UI controls for inline add/edit/delete within the filtered view
- Wire up API routes for all mutations
- Validate field updates in both artefact and roadmap file
- Log all mutations to execution log
- Add test cases for each mutation path

## 🧾 Execution Log

- 2025-12-14: Artefact scaffolded; roadmap updated.
- 2025-12-14: Status updated to in_progress; first implementation task created (Task 11.2.2.1 - Scaffold UI controls).
- 2025-12-14: Canonical taxonomy and roadmap structure committed and tagged at taxonomy-2025-12-14-canonical-structure. Model: workstream ("Ora") → program (phase) → project (grouping) → artefact (task/note/thought). All artefacts versioned and discoverable only within roadmap tree. UI filtering aligned.

## 🧠 Memory Trace

- Filtering and contextual chat already implemented (Phase 11.2.1)
- No orphan artefacts; all logic sequenced in vertical slice 

## 💬 Chat

- timestamp: 2025-06-11T01:23:39.130Z
  speaker: ora
  message: I can assist you with this loop in several ways:

• Understand the execution context and objectives
• Review progress and current status
• Discuss implementation approaches
• Explore related tasks and dependencies
• Plan next steps and milestones

Feel free to ask about any specific aspect you'd like to explore!


- timestamp: 2025-06-11T01:23:39.124Z
  speaker: user
  message: what is the about
