runtime/docs/roadmap.md, before:

---
title: Ora System Roadmap
created: 2025-06-08
last_updated: 2025-06-08
tags: [roadmap, phases, planning, documentation]
---

# Ora Roadmap

## Current Major Phases

1. **Phase 11:** Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering (Contextual-Chat-Demo UI)
2. **Phase 12:** Administration & Workstream Structure Management
3. **Phase 13:** Data Audit and Logical Grouping
4. **Phase 14+:** Semantic Feature Enhancements (tags, chat, scoring, sources, etc.)

## Status

- Phase 10.2: Complete
- Phase 11: In Progress

## Phase 11 – Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering

**Program**: Phase 11 – Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering  
**Status**: In Progress  
**Start Date**: 2025-06-08  
**Owner**: System Architecture Team  

### Project 11.1: Artefact Schema and Canonicalization
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Completion Date**: 2025-06-08  

#### Task 11.1.1: Design canonical artefact schema
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Comprehensive schema patterns analysis
- **Output**: `runtime/logs/loop_schema_patterns.md`
- **Notes**: Analyzed 55 loop files, identified 27 unique frontmatter fields and 78 section headings

#### Task 11.1.2: Document schema in system docs
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Schema documentation and integration recommendations
- **Output**: Integration patterns for Gmail, Slack, and planning tools
- **Notes**: High-value fields identified: title, uuid, created, source, workstream, status, tags

### Project 11.2: Semantic Chat Demo Filtering
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Completion Date**: 2025-06-08  

#### Task 11.2.1: Implement filtering logic
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Multi-dimensional filtering engine
- **Notes**: Workstream, program (phase-based), project (tag-based), status filtering with real-time updates

#### Task 11.2.2: Integrate UI filter components
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Comprehensive filter interface
- **Notes**: 6-column responsive grid with shadcn/ui Select components, dynamic count displays

#### Task 11.2.3: Test filtering across artefact types
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Validated filtering across 53+ artefacts
- **Notes**: Independent and combination filtering working, no regressions detected

### Project 11.3: Legacy Data Cleanup
**Status**: In Progress  
**Estimated Completion**: 2025-06-15  

#### Task 11.3.1: Audit legacy loop files
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Comprehensive metadata audit report
- **Output**: `runtime/logs/loop_metadata_audit.md`
- **Notes**: 44 files (80%) identified with metadata issues requiring attention

#### Task 11.3.2: Migrate compliant artefacts
- **Status**: 🔄 IN PROGRESS
- **Priority**: High
- **Notes**: Focus on 17 files missing required sections, 8 orphaned artefacts

#### Task 11.3.3: Archive non-compliant artefacts
- **Status**: ⏳ PLANNED
- **Priority**: Medium
- **Dependencies**: Task 11.3.2 completion

## Change Log

- [2025-12-13] Comprehensive Artefact Filtering Implementation completed - Implemented full multi-dimensional artefact filtering in Semantic Chat Demo with workstream, program (phase), and project (tags) filtering capabilities. Enhanced with real-time filtering of 53+ artefacts, dynamic counts, comprehensive sorting options, and filter reset functionality following established UI patterns from SystemView/PhaseDocView (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-12-13] Semantic Chat Demo Elevation & Enhanced Filtering completed - Elevated Contextual Chat Demo to primary navigation as "Semantic Chat" with comprehensive artefact filtering (workstream, phase/program, tag/project, status) and real-time filter effects, establishing semantic chat as core architectural feature (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-12-13] Workstream Filtering UI Enhancement completed - Added workstream filtering dropdown to PhaseDocView component, achieving consistent workstream-based filtering across all loop views (SystemView and PhaseDocView) with proper API integration and responsive design (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-12-13] System Docs UI Integration completed - Added dedicated "System Docs" tab to Contextual Chat Demo UI, surfacing all `/runtime/docs/` files with read-only markdown rendering (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-06-08] Phase 11 hierarchical structure implemented - Established program/project/task hierarchy with explicit tracking and status management
- [2025-06-08] Roadmap doc seeded for canonical reference.

# Project Roadmap

## 2025-06-08: Loop Schema Patterns Analysis System

**Capability**: Comprehensive Schema Analysis & Integration Planning  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Impact**: High - Foundation for artefact standardization and source integration  

### Implementation Summary
Delivered comprehensive schema patterns analysis system that analyzes all loop files for YAML frontmatter and markdown section patterns, providing integration recommendations for external sources.

### Key Achievements
- **Complete Schema Analysis**: Analyzed 55 loop files identifying 27 unique frontmatter fields and 78 section headings
- **Integration Recommendations**: Specific mapping guidance for Gmail, Slack, and planning tool integration
- **Data Quality Insights**: Field completeness analysis and standardization opportunities
- **Future Architecture**: Technical implementation notes for schema validation and templates

### Technical Deliverables
1. **Analysis Script**: `scripts/analyze-loop-schema-patterns.ts` with comprehensive pattern detection
2. **Schema Report**: `runtime/logs/loop_schema_patterns.md` with detailed analysis and recommendations
3. **Integration Mappings**: Source-specific mapping recommendations for external systems
4. **Evolution Roadmap**: Schema standardization and emerging pattern identification

### Business Value
- **Integration Readiness**: Clear roadmap for external source integration (Gmail, Slack, planning tools)
- **Data Standardization**: Identification of high-value fields for prioritized integration
- **Quality Framework**: Schema validation foundation for future artefact creation
- **Semantic Enhancement**: Support for AI-powered analysis and reasoning capabilities

### Critical Insights
- **Top Fields**: origin (96%), title (93%), tags (91%), uuid (91%), created (85%)
- **Core Sections**: Execution Log (82%), Purpose (78%), Objectives (76%), Memory Trace (75%), Tasks (71%)
- **Integration Value**: 7 high-value fields identified for external source mapping
- **Evolution Patterns**: 17 fields need standardization, 5 core sections well-established

## 2025-06-08: Loop Metadata Audit System

**Capability**: Data Quality Analysis & Audit Automation  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Impact**: High - Foundation for data integrity and system compliance  

### Implementation Summary
Delivered comprehensive loop metadata audit system with TypeScript-based automation that analyzes all 55 loop files for data quality issues.

### Key Achievements
- **Comprehensive Analysis**: Automated scanning of entire `/runtime/loops/` collection
- **Multi-dimensional Validation**: Metadata fields, required sections, canonical values
- **Detailed Reporting**: Statistics, distributions, file-by-file analysis with actionable recommendations
- **Orphan Detection**: Identification of artefacts not assigned to canonical workstreams
- **Performance**: ~2 second execution for full collection analysis

### Technical Deliverables
1. **Audit Script**: `scripts/audit-loop-metadata.ts` with modular TypeScript architecture
2. **Validation Engine**: Rules for required fields, sections, and canonical value compliance
3. **Report Generator**: Comprehensive markdown report with statistics and recommendations
4. **Error Handling**: Graceful parsing failures with detailed error reporting

### Business Value
- **Data Quality Visibility**: 80% of files identified with metadata issues requiring attention
- **Compliance Support**: Enables adherence to Ora Alignment Protocol requirements
- **Improved Discoverability**: Better filtering and search capabilities through consistent metadata
- **Maintenance Automation**: Repeatable process for ongoing data quality monitoring

### Critical Findings
- **Field Completeness**: uuid (91%), title (93%), phase (84%), workstream (85%)
- **Structural Issues**: 17 files missing required sections (Purpose, Objectives)
- **Orphaned Artefacts**: 8 files using non-canonical workstreams
- **Quality Score**: Only 20% of files fully compliant with schema requirements

### Future Opportunities
1. **Automated Remediation**: Extend audit to fix simple issues automatically
2. **UI Integration**: Display audit results in system dashboard for real-time monitoring
3. **Scheduled Audits**: Regular automated execution with alerting for quality degradation
4. **Historical Analytics**: Trend analysis of data quality improvements over time
5. **Custom Validation**: User-configurable rules for domain-specific requirements

This capability provides essential infrastructure for maintaining high-quality metadata across the loop collection, supporting better system integrity and user experience through improved filtering and discovery.

Commit message:

📦 Archive Legacy Artefacts: Complete archival of 54 legacy files to establish canonical schema foundation - preserved all historical content with comprehensive documentation

runtime/docs/roadmap.md, after:

---
title: Ora System Roadmap
created: 2025-06-08
last_updated: 2025-06-08
tags: [roadmap, phases, planning, documentation]
---

# Ora Roadmap

## Current Major Phases

1. **Phase 11:** Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering (Contextual-Chat-Demo UI)
2. **Phase 12:** Administration & Workstream Structure Management
3. **Phase 13:** Data Audit and Logical Grouping
4. **Phase 14+:** Semantic Feature Enhancements (tags, chat, scoring, sources, etc.)

## Status

- Phase 10.2: Complete
- Phase 11: In Progress

## Phase 11 – Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering

**Program**: Phase 11 – Artefact Hierarchy and Filtering  
**Status**: In Progress  
**Start Date**: 2025-06-08  
**Owner**: System Architecture Team  

### Project 11.1: Artefact Schema and Canonicalization
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Completion Date**: 2025-06-08  

#### Task 11.1.1: Design canonical artefact schema
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Comprehensive schema patterns analysis
- **Output**: `runtime/logs/loop_schema_patterns.md`
- **Notes**: Analyzed 55 loop files, identified 27 unique frontmatter fields and 78 section headings

#### Task 11.1.2: Document schema in system docs
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Schema documentation and integration recommendations
- **Output**: Integration patterns for Gmail, Slack, and planning tools
- **Notes**: High-value fields identified: title, uuid, created, source, workstream, status, tags

### Project 11.2: Semantic Chat Demo Filtering
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Completion Date**: 2025-06-08  

#### Task 11.2.1: Implement filtering logic
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Multi-dimensional filtering engine
- **Notes**: Workstream, program (phase-based), project (tag-based), status filtering with real-time updates

#### Task 11.2.2: Integrate UI filter components
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Comprehensive filter interface
- **Notes**: 6-column responsive grid with shadcn/ui Select components, dynamic count displays

#### Task 11.2.3: Test filtering across artefact types
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Validated filtering across 53+ artefacts
- **Notes**: Independent and combination filtering working, no regressions detected

### Project 11.3: Legacy Data Cleanup
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Completion Date**: 2025-06-08  

#### Task 11.3.1: Audit legacy loop files
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Deliverable**: Comprehensive metadata audit report
- **Output**: `runtime/logs/loop_metadata_audit.md`
- **Notes**: 44 files (80%) identified with metadata issues requiring attention

#### Task 11.3.2: Migrate compliant artefacts
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Completion Date**: 2025-06-08
- **Deliverable**: Complete archival of 54 legacy files to establish canonical schema foundation
- **Notes**: 52 loop files and 2 task files archived with comprehensive documentation

#### Task 11.3.3: Archive non-compliant artefacts
- **Status**: ✅ COMPLETE
- **Completion Date**: 2025-06-08
- **Deliverable**: Legacy artefacts archived with comprehensive documentation and canonical schema requirements
- **Notes**: All legacy content preserved in archive subdirectories with complete historical integrity

## Change Log

- [2025-12-13] Comprehensive Artefact Filtering Implementation completed - Implemented full multi-dimensional artefact filtering in Semantic Chat Demo with workstream, program (phase), and project (tags) filtering capabilities. Enhanced with real-time filtering of 53+ artefacts, dynamic counts, comprehensive sorting options, and filter reset functionality following established UI patterns from SystemView/PhaseDocView (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-12-13] Semantic Chat Demo Elevation & Enhanced Filtering completed - Elevated Contextual Chat Demo to primary navigation as "Semantic Chat" with comprehensive artefact filtering (workstream, phase/program, tag/project, status) and real-time filter effects, establishing semantic chat as core architectural feature (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-12-13] Workstream Filtering UI Enhancement completed - Added workstream filtering dropdown to PhaseDocView component, achieving consistent workstream-based filtering across all loop views (SystemView and PhaseDocView) with proper API integration and responsive design (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-12-13] System Docs UI Integration completed - Added dedicated "System Docs" tab to Contextual Chat Demo UI, surfacing all `/runtime/docs/` files with read-only markdown rendering (linked to Phase 11 UI enhancements)
- [2025-06-08] Phase 11 hierarchical structure implemented - Established program/project/task hierarchy with explicit tracking and status management
- [2025-06-08] Roadmap doc seeded for canonical reference.

# Project Roadmap

## 2025-06-08: Loop Schema Patterns Analysis System

**Capability**: Comprehensive Schema Analysis & Integration Planning  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Impact**: High - Foundation for artefact standardization and source integration  

### Implementation Summary
Delivered comprehensive schema patterns analysis system that analyzes all loop files for YAML frontmatter and markdown section patterns, providing integration recommendations for external sources.

### Key Achievements
- **Complete Schema Analysis**: Analyzed 55 loop files identifying 27 unique frontmatter fields and 78 section headings
- **Integration Recommendations**: Specific mapping guidance for Gmail, Slack, and planning tool integration
- **Data Quality Insights**: Field completeness analysis and standardization opportunities
- **Future Architecture**: Technical implementation notes for schema validation and templates

### Technical Deliverables
1. **Analysis Script**: `scripts/analyze-loop-schema-patterns.ts` with comprehensive pattern detection
2. **Schema Report**: `runtime/logs/loop_schema_patterns.md` with detailed analysis and recommendations
3. **Integration Mappings**: Source-specific mapping recommendations for external systems
4. **Evolution Roadmap**: Schema standardization and emerging pattern identification

### Business Value
- **Integration Readiness**: Clear roadmap for external source integration (Gmail, Slack, planning tools)
- **Data Standardization**: Identification of high-value fields for prioritized integration
- **Quality Framework**: Schema validation foundation for future artefact creation
- **Semantic Enhancement**: Support for AI-powered analysis and reasoning capabilities

### Critical Insights
- **Top Fields**: origin (96%), title (93%), tags (91%), uuid (91%), created (85%)
- **Core Sections**: Execution Log (82%), Purpose (78%), Objectives (76%), Memory Trace (75%), Tasks (71%)
- **Integration Value**: 7 high-value fields identified for external source mapping
- **Evolution Patterns**: 17 fields need standardization, 5 core sections well-established

## 2025-06-08: Loop Metadata Audit System

**Capability**: Data Quality Analysis & Audit Automation  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETE  
**Impact**: High - Foundation for data integrity and system compliance  

### Implementation Summary
Delivered comprehensive loop metadata audit system with TypeScript-based automation that analyzes all 55 loop files for data quality issues.

### Key Achievements
- **Comprehensive Analysis**: Automated scanning of entire `/runtime/loops/` collection
- **Multi-dimensional Validation**: Metadata fields, required sections, canonical values
- **Detailed Reporting**: Statistics, distributions, file-by-file analysis with actionable recommendations
- **Orphan Detection**: Identification of artefacts not assigned to canonical workstreams
- **Performance**: ~2 second execution for full collection analysis

### Technical Deliverables
1. **Audit Script**: `scripts/audit-loop-metadata.ts` with modular TypeScript architecture
2. **Validation Engine**: Rules for required fields, sections, and canonical value compliance
3. **Report Generator**: Comprehensive markdown report with statistics and recommendations
4. **Error Handling**: Graceful parsing failures with detailed error reporting

### Business Value
- **Data Quality Visibility**: 80% of files identified with metadata issues requiring attention
- **Compliance Support**: Enables adherence to Ora Alignment Protocol requirements
- **Improved Discoverability**: Better filtering and search capabilities through consistent metadata
- **Maintenance Automation**: Repeatable process for ongoing data quality monitoring

### Critical Findings
- **Field Completeness**: uuid (91%), title (93%), phase (84%), workstream (85%)
- **Structural Issues**: 17 files missing required sections (Purpose, Objectives)
- **Orphaned Artefacts**: 8 files using non-canonical workstreams
- **Quality Score**: Only 20% of files fully compliant with schema requirements

### Future Opportunities
1. **Automated Remediation**: Extend audit to fix simple issues automatically
2. **UI Integration**: Display audit results in system dashboard for real-time monitoring
3. **Scheduled Audits**: Regular automated execution with alerting for quality degradation
4. **Historical Analytics**: Trend analysis of data quality improvements over time
5. **Custom Validation**: User-configurable rules for domain-specific requirements

This capability provides essential infrastructure for maintaining high-quality metadata across the loop collection, supporting better system integrity and user experience through improved filtering and discovery.
